README.md, before:

# Full-Stack Next.js Application Template

 This repository is a full-stack sample web application based on Next.js that creates a simple whole-website architecture, and provides the foundational services, components, and plumbing needed to get a basic web application up and running. 


![quick overview](public/assets/images/screenshot.jpg)

## Table of Contents

* [File Structures](#file-structures)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
* [Deploy on Custom Server](#deploy-on-custom-server)
* [Further Help](#further-help)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Supported development environment](#supported-development-environment)
* [Changelog](#changelog)
* [Licensing](#licensing)



## File Structures


```sh
fullstack-nextjs-app-template/
├── README.md
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── LICENSE
├── next.config.js
├── server.js
├── middleware.ts
├── tsconfig.json
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json 
├── out/  
├── scripts/  
├── public/  
├── pages/ 
│   ├── api/
│   └── *.tsx
├── src/
│   ├── config/
│   └── components/
│   └── styles/
│   └── server/
│   └── utils/
└──
```




## Getting Started

Make sure if NODEJS is installed on your computer.

### Install  Dependencies:

```sh
$ npm install
```
It will create `node_module` folder in this all dependency files will be install with this command.


### Run Project in development mode:

```sh
$ npm run dev
```
With is command file will be compiled and it will be loaded on local server [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).


### Production Build :

```sh
$ npm run build 
```
**Note:** Defer generating all pages on-demand by this command. You can have faster builds by generating all pages on-demand for previews (but not production builds). This is helpful for sites with hundreds/thousands of static pages.


```sh
$ npm run build:static 
```
This build mode will generate static data.



### Start a Next.js production server:

```sh
$ npm run start
```


### Start the PHP server independently:

```sh
$ npm run phpserver
```
Please use a PHP server environment with a local port of 4000, check the file at `./src/server/php-runner.js`



### Deploy node server on hosting server:

**production mode:**
```sh
$ npm run build  # this command must be run first
$ npm run deploy:prod 
```

**development mode:**
```sh
$ npm run deploy:dev 
```

*(If it doesn't work because of Node permission, use the following [commands](#deploy-on-custom-server-commands))*

### Stop the existing deployments
```sh
$ npm run destroy
```


### Export your Next.js application to static HTML

**Step 1. generate static resources:**
```sh
$ npm run export
```

**Step 2. fix name for HTML files:**
```sh
$ npm run export:fix
```

**Step 3. preview the static site**

Then, test the generated static website (the HTML static website is located in the directory `.out/`). Access using the URL [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000)

```sh
$ npm run export:test
```



## Deploy on Custom Server

### ⚙️ (Step 1) Create a file as the server startup entry

Create a new file `server.js` (do not use `.ts`) at the same level as your `pages` directory. Take a look at the following example of a custom server:

```js
const { createServer } = require('http');
const { parse } = require('url');
const next = require('next');

let dev = process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production';
dev = false;  // need run `npm run build` first
const hostname = 'localhost';
const port = 3000;
// when using middleware `hostname` and `port` must be provided below
const app = next({ dev, hostname, port });
const handle = app.getRequestHandler();

app.prepare().then(() => {
  createServer(async (req, res) => {
    try {
      // Be sure to pass `true` as the second argument to `url.parse`.
      // This tells it to parse the query portion of the URL.
      const parsedUrl = parse(req.url, true)
      const { pathname, query } = parsedUrl

      if (pathname === '/a') {
        await app.render(req, res, '/a', query)
      } else if (pathname === '/b') {
        await app.render(req, res, '/b', query)
      } else {
        await handle(req, res, parsedUrl)
      }
      
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('Error occurred handling', req.url, err)
      res.statusCode = 500
      res.end('internal server error')
    }
  }).listen(port, (err) => {
    if (err) throw err
    console.log(`> Ready on http://${hostname}:${port}`)
  })
})
```


#### Enabling HTTPS on Local Server

Modify the file `server.js`, use [https.createServer([options][, requestListener])](https://nodejs.org/api/https.html#httpscreateserveroptions-requestlistener) to wrap the express service, please check out the sample code below:


```js
// Supprt HTTPS
const fs = require('fs');
const path = require('path');
const https = require('https');
const cert = fs.readFileSync(path.join(__dirname,'../../path/bundle.crt'));
const key = fs.readFileSync(path.join(__dirname,'../../path/ca.key'));
const options = {key: key, cert: cert };


app.prepare().then(() => {
    https.createServer(options, async (req, res) => {
        try {
            ...
        } catch (err) {
            console.error('Error occurred handling', req.url, err)
            res.statusCode = 500
            res.end('internal server error')
        }
    }).listen(port, (err) => {
        if (err) throw err
        console.log(`> Ready on https://${hostname}:${port}`)
    })
})
```

access with `https://localhost:3000` or `https://{YOUR_IP}:3000`



### ⚙️ (Step 2) Configure `package.json` 

To run the custom server you'll need to update the scripts in package.json like so:
```json
"scripts": {
  "dev": "node server.js",
  "start": "NODE_ENV=production node server.js"
}
```

**(Optional).** Disabling file-system routing
```js
module.exports = {
  useFileSystemPublicRoutes: false,
}
```

### ⚙️ (Step 3) Install PM2 environment

Start Next.js application with PM2 as a service (only works if you are using Node v13.9.0 or above.)

#### 3.1) Installing Node and NPM on hosting server **(Optional).**

Node14+ version will be installed here

```sh
$ curl -sL https://rpm.nodesource.com/setup_14.x | sudo bash -
$ sudo yum install nodejs
$ node --version  #v14.16.1
$ npm --version   #6.14.12
```


#### 3.2) Installing PM2. With NPM

```sh
$ sudo npm install pm2@latest -g
```

<a id="deploy-on-custom-server-commands"></a>

#### 3.3) Frequently used commands for PM2:

```sh
#into your `"fullstack-nextjs-app-template/"` folder directory.
$ cd /{your_directory}/fullstack-nextjs-app-template


#run app
$ pm2 start xxxx.js

#other commands
$ pm2 restart xxxx.js
$ pm2 stop xxxx.js
$ pm2 delete xxxx.js
$ pm2 list
$ pm2 logs
```


#### 3.4) 🏹 Now once your build complete successfully run below command to run your Next.js with PM2

```sh
$ pm2 start npm --name "fullstack-nextjs-app-template" -- start
```

destroy process:
```sh
$ pm2 stop "fullstack-nextjs-app-template" & pm2 delete "fullstack-nextjs-app-template"
```


<blockquote>
<h3>💡 Some solutions to problems that may occur when deploying the application with NPM or PM2 on cloud server:</h3>
 
**a）The `build` or `dev` command fails**

When on an M1 Mac and switching from a Node.js version without M1 support to one with, e.g. v14 to v16, you may need a different swc dependency which can require re-installing `node_modules` (npm i --force or yarn install --force).

```sh
$ npm i --force  # This can be ignored if you can build
$ rm -rf /{your_directory}/fullstack-nextjs-app-template/.next  # Delete the. Next folder
$ npm run build
$ pm2 start server.js
```

*Make sure your server has directory and file permissions to run the project*


**b）ERROR: permission denied, access '/usr/lib/node_modules'**

*Solution:*
```sh
$ chmod -R a+x node_modules
```

**c）ERROR:  JavaScript heap out of memory**

There is a strict standard limit for memory usage in V8 to be a maximum of ~1GB (32-bit) and ~1.7GB (64-bit),  if you do not increase it manually.

*Solution:*
```sh
export NODE_OPTIONS=--max_old_space_size=4096
```


**d) Error: EACCES: permission denied, mkdir '/root/.pm2/xxxx'**

*Solution:*

In general, just avoid using `NPM` to run PM2 commands.


*You could still try the following:*

Make sure you kill any PM2 instance before starting PM2 in no deamon mode (pm2 kill).

```sh
# re-install PM2 (optional)
$ sudo npm i -g pm2   

# if pm2 was reinstalled, ts-node must be reinstalled (optional)
$ sudo npm install -g ts-node@latest  

# clear all pm2 instances
$ pm2 kill

# then restart it
$ pm2 start xxxxxx
```
</blockquote>


#### 3.5) Use domain to access your Next.js appication.

You had created a basic Next.js App from here, then you need to deploy a Next.js App on Apache or Nginx web server. Please refer to the network for the tutorial on setting up the proxy.


### ⚙️ (Step 4) Nginx’s Site Configuration

Now that the app is ready to be deployed, we should prepare the Nginx end. In case Nginx is not installed, it can be easily installed with the apt packaging system by running the following two commands:

```sh
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install nginx
```
or
```sh
$ sudo yum install nginx -y
```

Start Nginx:

```sh
$ systemctl start nginx
```

Start at boot:

```sh
$ systemctl enable nginx
```



Set Up a Firewall Using FirewallD on CentOS 8:

```sh
$ firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=http
$ firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=https
$ firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-port=3000/tcp
$ firewall-cmd --reload
$ systemctl restart nginx 
```

We can check if Nginx is running on the system:

```sh
$ systemctl status nginx
```


Alright, now that the Nginx service has successfully started running, we can go ahead and modify the configuration file found at `/etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf`. This is where we will point the domain to fire up the correct Next.js application:

```sh
$ vi /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
```

At the end of the file, add:

```bash
server {
        listen      443 ssl;
        server_name backend1.example.com;

        ...
        location / {
            proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
            proxy_pass http://{YOUR_IP}:3000;
        }

}
```

After adding these lines to the file, we need to restart the Nginx service:

```sh
$ systemctl restart nginx
```

There probably won’t be any messages if the service restarted successfully. Otherwise, it will spit out lines of error messages.




## Further Help

This project is based on [`create-next-app (Next.js v12.2.x+)`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app) to create and extend the basic functions of the whole site.


### (1) Node.js Port 3000 already in use but it actually isn't?

run the following command
```sh
$ killall -9 node
```

### (2) Change the Favicon

To change your Site Favicon, navigate the file `pages/_document.tsx` and modify the code between `<Head>`


### (3) Customize Menu

Navigate the file `src/components/Header` and modify it.


### (4) Set port in next.js

In your package.json file, add -p 8080 to the dev/start scripts to start the server on port 8080:
```json
"scripts": {
  "dev": "next -p 8080",
  "start": "next start -p 8080"
}
```

Alternatively, if you don't want to hardcode this in the package.json file, you could start the script with ENV variable PORT.
```sh
$ PORT=8080 npm run dev
```



## Contributing

- [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- [nextjs](https://nextjs.org/)
- [axios](https://github.com/axios/axios)
- [Express](http://expressjs.com/)
- [php-express](https://github.com/fnobi/php-express)
- [next-cookies](https://github.com/matthewmueller/next-cookies)
- [pm2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/)




## Supported development environment

- Next.js 12.2.x + 
- React 18 +
- TypeScript 4.x.x + 
- Express 4.x.x


## Changelog

[releases](CHANGELOG.md)



## Licensing

Licensed under the [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Add Site URL (Root Directory) Configurations.

README.md, after:

# Full-Stack Next.js Application Template

 This repository is a full-stack sample web application based on Next.js that creates a simple whole-website architecture, and provides the foundational services, components, and plumbing needed to get a basic web application up and running. 


![quick overview](public/assets/images/screenshot.jpg)

## Table of Contents

* [File Structures](#file-structures)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
* [Deploy on Custom Server](#deploy-on-custom-server)
* [Further Help](#further-help)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Supported development environment](#supported-development-environment)
* [Changelog](#changelog)
* [Licensing](#licensing)



## File Structures


```sh
fullstack-nextjs-app-template/
├── README.md
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── LICENSE
├── next.config.js
├── server.js
├── middleware.ts
├── tsconfig.json
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json 
├── out/  
├── scripts/  
├── public/  
├── pages/ 
│   ├── api/
│   └── *.tsx
├── src/
│   ├── config/
│   └── components/
│   └── styles/
│   └── server/
│   └── utils/
└──
```




## Getting Started

Make sure if NODEJS is installed on your computer.

### Install  Dependencies:

```sh
$ npm install
```
It will create `node_module` folder in this all dependency files will be install with this command.


### Run Project in development mode:

```sh
$ npm run dev
```
With is command file will be compiled and it will be loaded on local server [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).


### Production Build :

```sh
$ npm run build 
```
**Note:** Defer generating all pages on-demand by this command. You can have faster builds by generating all pages on-demand for previews (but not production builds). This is helpful for sites with hundreds/thousands of static pages.


```sh
$ npm run build:static 
```
This build mode will generate static data.



### Start a Next.js production server:

```sh
$ npm run start
```


### Start the PHP server independently:

```sh
$ npm run phpserver
```
Please use a PHP server environment with a local port of 4000, check the file at `./src/server/php-runner.js`



### Deploy node server on hosting server:

**production mode:**
```sh
$ npm run build  # this command must be run first
$ npm run deploy:prod 
```

**development mode:**
```sh
$ npm run deploy:dev 
```

*(If it doesn't work because of Node permission, use the following [commands](#deploy-on-custom-server-commands))*

### Stop the existing deployments
```sh
$ npm run destroy
```


### Export your Next.js application to static HTML

**Step 1. generate static resources:**
```sh
$ npm run export
```

**Step 2. fix name for HTML files:**
```sh
$ npm run export:fix
```

**Step 3. preview the static site**

Then, test the generated static website (the HTML static website is located in the directory `.out/`). Access using the URL [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000)

```sh
$ npm run export:test
```



## Deploy on Custom Server

### ⚙️ (Step 1) Create a file as the server startup entry

Create a new file `server.js` (do not use `.ts`) at the same level as your `pages` directory. Take a look at the following example of a custom server:

```js
const { createServer } = require('http');
const { parse } = require('url');
const next = require('next');

let dev = process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production';
dev = false;  // need run `npm run build` first
const hostname = 'localhost';
const port = 3000;
// when using middleware `hostname` and `port` must be provided below
const app = next({ dev, hostname, port });
const handle = app.getRequestHandler();

app.prepare().then(() => {
  createServer(async (req, res) => {
    try {
      // Be sure to pass `true` as the second argument to `url.parse`.
      // This tells it to parse the query portion of the URL.
      const parsedUrl = parse(req.url, true)
      const { pathname, query } = parsedUrl

      if (pathname === '/a') {
        await app.render(req, res, '/a', query)
      } else if (pathname === '/b') {
        await app.render(req, res, '/b', query)
      } else {
        await handle(req, res, parsedUrl)
      }
      
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('Error occurred handling', req.url, err)
      res.statusCode = 500
      res.end('internal server error')
    }
  }).listen(port, (err) => {
    if (err) throw err
    console.log(`> Ready on http://${hostname}:${port}`)
  })
})
```


#### Enabling HTTPS on Local Server

Modify the file `server.js`, use [https.createServer([options][, requestListener])](https://nodejs.org/api/https.html#httpscreateserveroptions-requestlistener) to wrap the express service, please check out the sample code below:


```js
// Supprt HTTPS
const fs = require('fs');
const path = require('path');
const https = require('https');
const cert = fs.readFileSync(path.join(__dirname,'../../path/bundle.crt'));
const key = fs.readFileSync(path.join(__dirname,'../../path/ca.key'));
const options = {key: key, cert: cert };


app.prepare().then(() => {
    https.createServer(options, async (req, res) => {
        try {
            ...
        } catch (err) {
            console.error('Error occurred handling', req.url, err)
            res.statusCode = 500
            res.end('internal server error')
        }
    }).listen(port, (err) => {
        if (err) throw err
        console.log(`> Ready on https://${hostname}:${port}`)
    })
})
```

access with `https://localhost:3000` or `https://{YOUR_IP}:3000`



### ⚙️ (Step 2) Configure `package.json` 

To run the custom server you'll need to update the scripts in package.json like so:
```json
"scripts": {
  "dev": "node server.js",
  "start": "NODE_ENV=production node server.js"
}
```

**(Optional).** Disabling file-system routing
```js
module.exports = {
  useFileSystemPublicRoutes: false,
}
```

### ⚙️ (Step 3) Install PM2 environment

Start Next.js application with PM2 as a service (only works if you are using Node v13.9.0 or above.)

#### 3.1) Installing Node and NPM on hosting server **(Optional).**

Node14+ version will be installed here

```sh
$ curl -sL https://rpm.nodesource.com/setup_14.x | sudo bash -
$ sudo yum install nodejs
$ node --version  #v14.16.1
$ npm --version   #6.14.12
```


#### 3.2) Installing PM2. With NPM

```sh
$ sudo npm install pm2@latest -g
```

<a id="deploy-on-custom-server-commands"></a>

#### 3.3) Frequently used commands for PM2:

```sh
#into your `"fullstack-nextjs-app-template/"` folder directory.
$ cd /{your_directory}/fullstack-nextjs-app-template


#run app
$ pm2 start xxxx.js

#other commands
$ pm2 restart xxxx.js
$ pm2 stop xxxx.js
$ pm2 delete xxxx.js
$ pm2 list
$ pm2 logs
```


#### 3.4) 🏹 Now once your build complete successfully run below command to run your Next.js with PM2

```sh
$ pm2 start npm --name "fullstack-nextjs-app-template" -- start
```

destroy process:
```sh
$ pm2 stop "fullstack-nextjs-app-template" & pm2 delete "fullstack-nextjs-app-template"
```


<blockquote>
<h3>💡 Some solutions to problems that may occur when deploying the application with NPM or PM2 on cloud server:</h3>
 
**a）The `build` or `dev` command fails**

When on an M1 Mac and switching from a Node.js version without M1 support to one with, e.g. v14 to v16, you may need a different swc dependency which can require re-installing `node_modules` (npm i --force or yarn install --force).

```sh
$ npm i --force  # This can be ignored if you can build
$ rm -rf /{your_directory}/fullstack-nextjs-app-template/.next  # Delete the. Next folder
$ npm run build
$ pm2 start server.js
```

*Make sure your server has directory and file permissions to run the project*


**b）ERROR: permission denied, access '/usr/lib/node_modules'**

*Solution:*
```sh
$ chmod -R a+x node_modules
```

**c）ERROR:  JavaScript heap out of memory**

There is a strict standard limit for memory usage in V8 to be a maximum of ~1GB (32-bit) and ~1.7GB (64-bit),  if you do not increase it manually.

*Solution:*
```sh
export NODE_OPTIONS=--max_old_space_size=4096
```


**d) Error: EACCES: permission denied, mkdir '/root/.pm2/xxxx'**

*Solution:*

In general, just avoid using `NPM` to run PM2 commands.


*You could still try the following:*

Make sure you kill any PM2 instance before starting PM2 in no deamon mode (pm2 kill).

```sh
# re-install PM2 (optional)
$ sudo npm i -g pm2   

# if pm2 was reinstalled, ts-node must be reinstalled (optional)
$ sudo npm install -g ts-node@latest  

# clear all pm2 instances
$ pm2 kill

# then restart it
$ pm2 start xxxxxx
```
</blockquote>


#### 3.5) Use domain to access your Next.js appication.

You had created a basic Next.js App from here, then you need to deploy a Next.js App on Apache or Nginx web server. Please refer to the network for the tutorial on setting up the proxy.


### ⚙️ (Step 4) Nginx’s Site Configuration

Now that the app is ready to be deployed, we should prepare the Nginx end. In case Nginx is not installed, it can be easily installed with the apt packaging system by running the following two commands:

```sh
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install nginx
```
or
```sh
$ sudo yum install nginx -y
```

Start Nginx:

```sh
$ systemctl start nginx
```

Start at boot:

```sh
$ systemctl enable nginx
```



Set Up a Firewall Using FirewallD on CentOS 8:

```sh
$ firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=http
$ firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=https
$ firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-port=3000/tcp
$ firewall-cmd --reload
$ systemctl restart nginx 
```

We can check if Nginx is running on the system:

```sh
$ systemctl status nginx
```


Alright, now that the Nginx service has successfully started running, we can go ahead and modify the configuration file found at `/etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf`. This is where we will point the domain to fire up the correct Next.js application:

```sh
$ vi /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
```

At the end of the file, add:

```bash
server {
        listen      443 ssl;
        server_name backend1.example.com;

        ...
        location / {
            proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
            proxy_pass http://{YOUR_IP}:3000;
        }

}
```

After adding these lines to the file, we need to restart the Nginx service:

```sh
$ systemctl restart nginx
```

There probably won’t be any messages if the service restarted successfully. Otherwise, it will spit out lines of error messages.




## Further Help

This project is based on [`create-next-app (Next.js v12.2.x+)`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app) to create and extend the basic functions of the whole site.



### ⚙️ Node.js Port 3000 already in use but it actually isn't?

run the following command
```sh
$ killall -9 node
```

### ⚙️ Change the Favicon

To change your Site Favicon, navigate the file `pages/_document.tsx` and modify the code between `<Head>`


### ⚙️ Customize Menu

Navigate the file `src/components/Header` and modify it.


### ⚙️ Set port in next.js

In your package.json file, add -p 8080 to the dev/start scripts to start the server on port 8080:
```json
"scripts": {
  "dev": "next -p 8080",
  "start": "next start -p 8080"
}
```

Alternatively, if you don't want to hardcode this in the package.json file, you could start the script with ENV variable PORT.
```sh
$ PORT=8080 npm run dev
```


### ⚙️ Site URL (Root Directory) Configurations:

Change the root directory of the website so that it can be used when you upload the project to another directory. Modify the key `siteUrl` of the `./src/data/app.json`.

If the file is in the root directory, you can leave it empty. If in another directory, you can write: "/blog". **(no trailing slash)**


```json
{
    "siteUrl": "http://localhost:3000",
    "copyright": "xxxxxxxxxx"
}
```



## Contributing

- [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- [nextjs](https://nextjs.org/)
- [axios](https://github.com/axios/axios)
- [Express](http://expressjs.com/)
- [php-express](https://github.com/fnobi/php-express)
- [next-cookies](https://github.com/matthewmueller/next-cookies)
- [pm2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/)




## Supported development environment

- Next.js 13.x + 
- React 18 +
- TypeScript 4.x.x + 
- Express 4.x.x


## Changelog

[releases](CHANGELOG.md)



## Licensing

Licensed under the [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
